NOTES.md, before:

# Notes


## How many blocks?

- xx blocks / week, / month, / year
- a block every 20 minutes (a block every hour)


## Blockchains Samples

Add - why? why not?

- Bitcoin (started in )  - blocks/year  - blocks in 1.1.2017, in 1.1.2018
- Bitcoin Forks
  - Bitcoin Cash (Blockchain)
  - Bitcoin XL (Blockchain)
  - ...

Bitcoin Block Header - 80 bytes 
includes:
- timestamp   (in unix epoch time - (mili?)seconds since 1970 - unsigned int for 2023 problem/overflow)
- merkle_tree_hash  (transactions / txs )   - SHA512 ??



## More Questions

- Q: What's a Sidechain?
- Q: What's a Hyper Ledger Book?


## Blockchain in Austria

Add AUSTRIA.md page?

- Blockchain Austria (Bundesministerium f. Wirtschaft)
- Bundesrechenzentrum
- Stadt Wien 


## Blockchain - Data Structure vs Network

How many (network) nodes?


## More Build Your Own Blockchain Samples / Projects

### Python

**Dumbcoin** - An educational python implementation of a bitcoin-like blockchain
- https://github.com/julienr/ipynb_playground/blob/master/bitcoin/dumbcoin/dumbcoin.ipynb

Tiniest Blockchain in Python Article (Alternatives):

- https://gist.github.com/aunyks/8f2c2fd51cc17f342737917e1c2582e2
- https://gist.github.com/thinkholic/35f3b4bdcd107d0bc088b6681e39e414


### Ruby

blockchain.rb Ruby Alternatives:

- https://github.com/MatiasFMolinari/blockchain-ruby/blob/master/blockchain.rb    Less than 10 Lines!


### JavaScript

**NaiveChain** github: [lhartikk/naivechain](https://github.com/lhartikk/naivechain) -- A blockchain implementation in 200 lines of code (in JavaScript).

- https://medium.com/@lhartikk/a-blockchain-in-200-lines-of-code-963cc1cc0e54



### Uncategorized / More


**SharpChain** github: [ZenXChaos/SharpChain](https://github.com/ZenXChaos/SharpChain) -- Lite version of the Blockchain. C# Data integrity.

Commit message:

add tulip mania note by schmijos

NOTES.md, after:

# Notes


## Tulip Mania 

**Notice:** The tulip bubble was about future contracts (which specified cancellation fines) and never about the price of a tulip. Tulips are planted in autumn. They were underground while the mania happened. Often financial derivaties make bubbles and not the market per se.

by [Josua Schmid](https://github.com/schmijos)



## How many blocks?

- xx blocks / week, / month, / year
- a block every 20 minutes (a block every hour)


## Blockchains Samples

Add - why? why not?

- Bitcoin (started in )  - blocks/year  - blocks in 1.1.2017, in 1.1.2018
- Bitcoin Forks
  - Bitcoin Cash (Blockchain)
  - Bitcoin XL (Blockchain)
  - ...

Bitcoin Block Header - 80 bytes 
includes:
- timestamp   (in unix epoch time - (mili?)seconds since 1970 - unsigned int for 2023 problem/overflow)
- merkle_tree_hash  (transactions / txs )   - SHA512 ??



## More Questions

- Q: What's a Sidechain?
- Q: What's a Hyper Ledger Book?


## Blockchain in Austria

Add AUSTRIA.md page?

- Blockchain Austria (Bundesministerium f. Wirtschaft)
- Bundesrechenzentrum
- Stadt Wien 


## Blockchain - Data Structure vs Network

How many (network) nodes?


## More Build Your Own Blockchain Samples / Projects

### Python

**Dumbcoin** - An educational python implementation of a bitcoin-like blockchain
- https://github.com/julienr/ipynb_playground/blob/master/bitcoin/dumbcoin/dumbcoin.ipynb

Tiniest Blockchain in Python Article (Alternatives):

- https://gist.github.com/aunyks/8f2c2fd51cc17f342737917e1c2582e2
- https://gist.github.com/thinkholic/35f3b4bdcd107d0bc088b6681e39e414


### Ruby

blockchain.rb Ruby Alternatives:

- https://github.com/MatiasFMolinari/blockchain-ruby/blob/master/blockchain.rb    Less than 10 Lines!


### JavaScript

**NaiveChain** github: [lhartikk/naivechain](https://github.com/lhartikk/naivechain) -- A blockchain implementation in 200 lines of code (in JavaScript).

- https://medium.com/@lhartikk/a-blockchain-in-200-lines-of-code-963cc1cc0e54



### Uncategorized / More


**SharpChain** github: [ZenXChaos/SharpChain](https://github.com/ZenXChaos/SharpChain) -- Lite version of the Blockchain. C# Data integrity.
